<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<head>
<title>Assignment 1</title>
</head>
<body>
Name: Sajid Abdullah 
Student number: S3753782
Email: s3753782@student.rmit.edu.au
Personal information
Hi RMIT a bit of background information about me. I was born in Australia but my parents came here from Bangladesh in the late 80’s. I can speak both English (obviously) and Bengali (not that fluent) and I am slowly learning Thai from my girlfriend. I finished high school in 2005 and first started University in 2006 studying Medical science. Since then I have kind of stopped and started degrees without finishing anything but I commenced this degree with OUA in 2018 and should graduate in 2020. I am studying Bachelor of Business majoring in Logistics and Supply chain management and work as an inventory Planner for Daikin air-conditioning. I have chosen this degree to gain more knowledge and further my career. My main hobby is modifying my cars and I am also a huge Lebron James fan so follow the NBA closely.
Interest in IT
I am interested in IT as it is so integral to our society that the world would basically shut down without it and chaos would ensue. I was first interested in IT when I was around 6 years old and my dad had bought us a PC, I believe it was a 386 or 486 with a turbo button running MS DOS! I used to play games whenever I had the chance until one day my cousin pressed the restart button while I was playing commander keen and it deleted all of my games. Ever since then we would get new computers every few years and I remember getting windows 95 with that weird hover car game and the music video from Weezer and just updating to the new OS whenever they came out. My dad used to get them for free from work.
I chose to study at RMIT quite honestly because they are the only university to offer an undergraduate degree majoring in logistics and supply chain management. My preference would have been to study at a university in Sydney so I could attend night classes but as nobody offered this degree I chose to study at RMIT through OUA. I am happy I chose this pathway though as I can study in my own time and not need to worry about scheduled classes as I prefer to study in my own time.
I am quite experience at what I do, but not all companies manage their SCM the same way and I would like to learn the fundamentals and how other companies manage their SCM and logistics operations. Speaking to lectures and tutors who have worked and teched in the field for so long is also very insightful and helps give you a broad understanding of the subjects.
Ideal Job
https://www.seek.com.au/job/40480064?type=standout#searchRequestToken=f6ad20ad-3506-422e-9595-95c3da071eae
 
This role is for the head of technology for an IT solutions company. They are responsible for managing all aspects of IT to ensure the organisation meets their goals in the most efficient way possible. It is appealing to me as I would like to get into management and being head of the IT department sounds challenging. 
This job requires a very skilled and experienced person as not only are they in charge of the whole IT department, they are also responsible for the IT infrastructure of the business. They should have atleast 10+ years of IT management experience in a large company, extensive systems knowledge, SCM and warehouse knowledge, cloud computing knowledge.
I have advanced skills in Microsoft excel, Microsoft access, SAP and WMS systems, high level of understanding the SCM and warehousing technologies, 7 years experience in SCM and inventory management.
First step would be to finish my degree. After finishing degree apply for graduate jobs in IT at large companies and gain experience. After gaining experience look around and moving into different parts of the business and work my way into middle management. Study an MBA and work my way into top management.
Personal Profile

 
 
 
I think the test results are quite accurate in interpreting my learning preferences but not my personality. For the Myers-briggs test my results came back with my type being ISFP. The part which is incorrect for me is that it says I often have very vivid memories, in reality I have a very bad memory and don’t remember anything. The VARK score and the big 5 personality test were quite accurate.
I think these results may have some influence on the behaviour within a team but ultimately it is up to each team member to get along. Although people have different personalities and learning styles, if you all have a common goal you should work towards that whichever way possible.
As above I believe these results should be taken into consideration, but not necessarily considered the be all end all factor in deciding whether a team succeeds. People from all walks of life work together even though they may have different personalities and learning styles yet they can somehow make it work.
Project idea
The ideal project for me would be automation of the sales and inventory planning systems. This would be by introducing systems which can monitor all data points necessary and forecast stock requirements in real time and order automatically from supplier.
As I am currently working in inventory planning my motivation is to assist me in the workplace and to make the ordering process as efficient as possible. It will not only assist me but there are many companies worldwide who are managing their inventory inefficiently so there is a huge market for this sort of software. This sort of software does currently exist but it is very cost prohibitive and only the biggest corporations use it, mainly the large companies in the FMCG space such as Coles and Woolworths.
The main function is to replenish and manage the inventory for a company. The system will also have the ability to forecast sales and the demand for products which it will then use to work out how much stock to purchase. The way it will do this is by collecting all required data points such as sales history, trends, seasonality, quotes and enquiries in the system to create a sales forecast for the following 12 months. Using this sales forecast the system will work out inventory requirements. When any new orders or projects come in the system will alert you to purchase more stock or can be set to automatically order to supplier. The system can also purchase according to budget and will be able to calculate things such as available warehouse space and forecast for warehouse space so you can also plan your future warehousing costs so it will act as a great budgeting tool for the business also. The benefits of this over humans doing the planning is that as long as the system is calibrated correctly it can pick up anything that a person may miss. Typically a human doing this job will be looking at spreadsheets and determining what to order based on these figures but when a company has a large range of products this can become quite tedious and time consuming. This time and money could be better utilised in other parts of the business.
To get this project off the ground the first thing you will need is a computer, software to make the ERP like oracle fusion technologies, database software like Microsoft access, spreadsheet software like excel. The people involved in the project will need a variety for skills, first and probably the most important of which is programmers and developers. Next will be supply chain experts who can give their input into what data points the system requires. People from sales planning and finance will also be required so they can assist with the sales planning and the financial requirements from the system.
If the project goes as planned, it will save the companies utilising the software a lot of money as you can reduce the number of staff in the planning department. Instead of the staff going through spreadsheets line by line they can learn how to use the system and program it to suit their needs. It will make the company more efficient in how they operate and will help optimise cash flow as they will be sitting on less inventory and not using as much spare in the warehouse. It will impact the company in a positive way as all companies are looking to increase profitability.
References
The Big Five Personality Test, viewed 10 December 2019, <https://www.truity.com/personality-test/13683/test-results/12221256>
The VARK questionnaire, viewed 10 December 2019, <http://vark-learn.com/the-vark-questionnaire/?p=results>
Crystal: Myers-Briggs Type Indicator test, viewed 10 December 2019, <https://www.crystalknows.com/personality/test-results?myers_briggs=ISFP>
</body>
</html>
